Retail Analysis Projects Tableau : https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/koushik.bhattacharya1357/viz/RetailDashboardVer_1/RetailerAnalysisDashboard?publish=yes
Inventory Analysis Projects Tableau : https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/koushik.bhattacharya1357/viz/InventoryDashboardVer_1/InventoryPerformanceDashboard?publish=yes
Retail Analysis Projects Tableau Video :
Inventory Analysis Projects Tableau Video :
Projects Requirements:
Problem Statement:
Problem Statement
Roger Ferro, the Country head of a multi-national retail company is
responsible for understanding the sales numbers and to make them
grow. For this, he wants to gauge and execute suitable sales techniques,
to scale up the sales numbers for various products, retailed by various
vendors.
The country heads wants to analyze the stock, price, number of items
sold and quality rating for various categories to find the sales trends. He
would also want to evaluate the inventory status for various categories,
subcategories, and items.
With such meticulous exploration of vendor sales and inventory stocks,
the country head can formulate schemes to improvise sales in low profit
periods and confirm that the inventory has enough stock to meet the
customer requirements.

Dashboard 1: Inventory Performance Dashboard
This dashboard should display the inventory data which shows category
and year from highest to lowest order in terms of vendor item price,
comparison of the End On Hand and On Order units for the selected
category and subcategory, and monthly End On Hand and On Order
units for each year. The category and subcategory selections should be
linked.
The following questions should be answered:
1. What is the EOH value for beverages in June 2011?
Answer : June 2011 EOH value is 1516090
2. What is the On Order value for beverages in June 2011?
Answer: June 2011 On order value is 714120
Dashboard 2: Retailer Analysis Dashboard
This dashboard should display the number of items for each category.
The view should allow the users to see the top n and bottom n items by
stock unit and also the quality rating by category and vendor.
The following questions should be answered:
1. Which are the vendors dealing with the Produce category?
2. Which is the top item in the Produce category?